README.md, before:

# Welcome
This repository contains all of my mathematics notes that I created with the help of [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/) and [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/).

It may seem weird to find/look at a repository that describes some of the most basic calculus/mathematics concepts and applications. The truth is, I've never been that great with numbers. My mind has trouble with understanding and remembering all the theory and information that comes with it. My solution to this problem is to create extremely detailed notes that I (and hopefully the person that is reading this) can use to remember a specific concept, or how to apply a specific calculation.

The information that this repository houses is separated into a few sections:

- Fundamentals

**Fundamentals**
This is fundamental knowledge that one should know when going through everyday life, and when diving into more advanced mathematics/calculus.

# Notation
A certain notation is being used throughout all my notes. These notations are based on Javascript mixed with more general mathmatical syntax. It should not be run as Javascript since it would result in errors.

In some cases, actual javascript code is being used. This is done to demonstrate the underlying principles in code. This helps me a lot since I can truly understand a process I am trying to learn once I define it in a procedural way.

## Overview
The table below lists each symbol that is used, and which operation it represents.

| Operation | Symbol |
|-|-|
| Add | <center>`+`</center> |
| Subtract | <center>`-`</center> |
| Divide | <center>`/`</center> |
| Multiply | <center>`*`</center> |
| Exponent | <center>`^`</center> |
| Parentheses | <center>`(` and `)`</center> |

The table below lists each function that is used, and which operation it represents.

| Operation | Function |
|-|-|
| Square root | <center>`sqrt()`</center> |

Commit message:

Expanded notes to include more concepts. Expanded multiplication notes. Added division notes

README.md, after:

# Welcome
This repository contains all of my mathematics notes that I created with the help of [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/) and [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/).

It may seem weird to find/look at a repository that describes some of the most basic calculus/mathematics concepts and applications. The truth is, I've never been that great with numbers. My mind has trouble with understanding and remembering all the theory and information that comes with it. My solution to this problem is to create extremely detailed notes that I (and hopefully the person that is reading this) can use to remember a specific concept, or how to apply a specific calculation.

The information that this repository houses is separated into a few sections:

- Fundamentals

**Fundamentals**
This is fundamental knowledge that one should know when going through everyday life, and when diving into more advanced mathematics/calculus.

# Note structure
The notes are being structured in a way that enables a person to quickly find a specific application of a concept.

# Notation
A certain notation is being used throughout all my notes. These notations are based on Javascript mixed with more general mathmatical syntax. It should not be run as Javascript since it would result in errors.

In some cases, actual javascript code is being used. This is done to demonstrate the underlying principles in code. This helps me a lot since I can truly understand a process I am trying to learn once I define it in a procedural way.

## Overview
The table below lists each symbol that is used, and which operation it represents.

| Operation | Symbol |
|-|-|
| Add | <center>`+`</center> |
| Subtract | <center>`-`</center> |
| Divide | <center>`/`</center> |
| Multiply | <center>`*`</center> |
| Exponent | <center>`^`</center> |
| Parentheses | <center>`(` and `)`</center> |

The table below lists each function that is used, and which operation it represents.

| Operation | Function |
|-|-|
| Square root | <center>`sqrt()`</center> |
