# Table of Contents
```toc
style: bullet
min_depth: 1
max_depth: 6
allow_inconsistent_headings: true
delimiter: "|"
varied_style: false
```
# What is addition?
Addition is the process of incrementing a count from one value to a higher value.

## Addition on a number line
We can visualize addition by using a number line. Adding a number to another number can be seen as moving a few steps forward on the number line.

For example, we can view `4 + 5` as starting on the number `4` and moving `5` steps to the right (forwards).

```
                    +1   +1   +1   +1   +1
0 -- 1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10
                  Start                     End
```
*`4 + 5` visualized on a number line*

When we take those five steps, we will end up at the number `9`.

## Addition using a place value system
We can make addition between large numbers easier by using a place value system.

```
12
24
-- +
```

The first number (starting from left) is inside the *tenths* column. The second number (starting from left) is inside the *ones* column.

When adding numbers together through a place value system, we always start with the lowest value in the system (*ones*). We then add all the numbers in each vertical column together and write the resulting number below the line. Once we've written down the result we move one column to the left and do the same thing. This repeats until we we have added all the numbers of each column. Once this has been done for all columns, the resulting number will be displayed below the line.

```
12
24
-- +
 6
```
*Step 1, Adding all the numbers in the `ones` column together*

```
12
24
-- +
36
```
*Step 2, Adding all the numbers in the `tenths` column together*

After all vertical columns have been added together we end up with the resulting number, which is `36`.

### Handling overflows
It is possible that some numbers well return a number higher than 9 when they've been added together. The following procedure can be followed to resolve this situation:

```
19
16
-- +
15
```
*The first addition results in the number `15`.*

```
1
19
16
-- +
 5
```
*We can move the resulting tenths to the top of the column. This will then be added with the other numbers.*

```
1
19
16
-- +
35
```
*The result*