# Table of Contents
```toc
style: bullet
min_depth: 1
max_depth: 6
allow_inconsistent_headings: true
delimiter: "|"
varied_style: false
```
# What is subtraction?
Subtraction is the process of decrementing a count from one value to a lower value.

## Subtraction on a number line
We can visualize subtraction by using a number line. Subtracting a number from a number can be seen as moving a few steps backwards on the number line.

For example, we can view `5 - 4` as starting on the number `5` and moving `4` steps to the left (backwards).

```
          -1   -1   -1   -1
0 -- 1 -- 2 -- 3 -- 4 -- 5 -- 6 -- 7 -- 8 -- 9 -- 10
    End                Start
```
*`4 + 5` visualized on a number line*

When we take those four steps, we will end up at the number `1`.

## Subtraction using a place value system
We can make subtracting large numbers from each other easier by using a place value system.

```
24
12
-- -
```

The first number (starting from left) is inside the *tenths* column. The second number (starting from left) is inside the *ones* column.

When subtracting numbers from each others through a place value system, we always start with the lowest value in the system (*ones*). We then subtract all the numbers within each vertical column from each other and write the resulting number below the line. Once we've written down the result we move one column to the left and do the same thing. This repeats until we we have subtracted all numbers of each column. Once this has been done for all columns, the resulting number will be displayed below the line.

```
24
12
-- -
 2
```
*Step 1, Subtracting all the numbers in the `ones` column together*

```
24
12
-- -
12
```
*Step 2, Subtracting all the numbers in the `tenths` column together*

After all vertical columns have been added together we end up with the resulting number, which is `12`.

### Handling overflows
When encountering a situation where you need to subtract a higher number from a lower number, you could borrow a `1` from the left column.

```
387
159
--- -
```
*We can't subtract from the `ones` column because we don't have a high enough quantity in there.*

```
37 17
15  9
----- -
    8
```
*We can borrow `1` from the `tenths` column. We do have to subtract `1` from the existing `tenth` which leaves us with a 7 instead of an `8`.*

```
37 17
15  9
----- -
 2  8
```
*We now just carry on as usual*

```
37 17
15  9
----- -
228
```
*The result*