Fundamentals/4. Multiplication.md, before:

# Table of Contents
```toc
style: bullet
min_depth: 1
max_depth: 6
allow_inconsistent_headings: true
delimiter: "|"
varied_style: false
```
# What is multiplication?
Multiplication is the process of taking one number and adding it to another number a number of times.

## Multiplication as repeated addition
When you encounter yourself adding the same number over and over again, a nice little shorthand of writing it would be with the `*` symbol. This symbol indicates that a multiplication is taking place.

```
2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8
```
*Repeated addition.*

```
2 * 4 = 8
```
*Repeated addition notated as multiplication.*

## Multiplication using groups of objects
Multiplication comes in handy when you have to count multiple groups of objects. The diagrams below (diagrams `A`, `B`, and `C`) contain 3 blocks each.

```
A [] [] []

B [] [] []

C [] [] []
```

We can just repeatedly add these blocks together like `3 + 3 + 3`, but we can also write it down as `3 * 3`. 

## Multiplication order (commutative property)
The order in which you write a multiplication does not matter. `2 * 4` produces the same result as `4 * 2`.

When writing both of these multiplications down as repeated additions, we can see that they indeed produce the same answer.

```
(2 * 4) 2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8
(4 * 2) 4 + 4 = 8
```

## Breaking down multiplications into simpler parts (distributive property)
A multiplication can be broken down into simpler parts, allowing you to easily multiply larger numbers.

We can break down a multiplication like `7 * 8` into smaller parts by redistributing a number inside the multiplication, in this example we will be using `8`. We can write the number `8` as the following additions: 

```
5 + 3
4 + 4
6 + 2
```
*Redistributing the number `8`.*

What we then can do is choose one of those additions and convert them into multiplications. We do this by multiplying both numbers by the number that we're **not** redistributing, in this case that is `7`.

```
(7 * 5) + (7 * 3) = 56
(7 * 4) + (7 * 4) = 56
(7 * 6) + (7 * 2) = 56
```
*Redistributions of the number `8` converted into multiplications.*

The result that we get from each redistribution matches with the result of `7 * 8` which is `56`.

## Multiplying multiple numbers
We can multiply multiple numbers in a row by chaining them. Chaining multiplication looks like this:

```
4 * 3 * 2
```

When solving this multiplication, we generally work from left to right. In this case we first solve `4 * 3`, this gives us `12`. We then replace the `4 * 3` part by twelve, creating the following multiplication: `12 * 2`. The final answer is `24`.

Multiplications can be chained infinitely, this example only illustrates multiplying three numbers together. However, this technique can be expanded in the same way to allow `4` or even `14` numbers to be multiplied together.

### Multiplication order (associative property)
When multiplying multiple numbers in a row, the order of which those numbers are multiplied does not matter.

```
4 * 5 * 2
```

The order in which we multiply the numbers above together does not matter:

```
4 * 5 * 2 = 40
5 * 2 * 4 = 40
2 * 5 * 4 = 40
2 * 4 * 5 = 40
```

# Multiplication from 0 to 10
This section contains all possible values that multiplying a number from 0 to 10 can have. A person could memorize all these combinations so that they will have an easier time with mental math.

## Using the number 0
Multiplication using the number `0` will **always** result in `0`. `0` means nothing, and when you want to multiply something by nothing, you will always get nothing.

```
0 * 0 = 0
1 * 0 = 0
2 * 0 = 0
3 * 0 = 0
4 * 0 = 0
5 * 0 = 0
6 * 0 = 0
7 * 0 = 0
8 * 0 = 0
9 * 0 = 0
10 * 0 = 0
```
*Representation of multiplying `0` from `0` to `10`*

## Using the number 1  
```  
0 * 1 = 0  
1 * 1 = 1  
2 * 1 = 2  
3 * 1 = 3  
4 * 1 = 4  
5 * 1 = 5  
6 * 1 = 6  
7 * 1 = 7  
8 * 1 = 8  
9 * 1 = 9  
10 * 1 = 10  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `1` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 2  
```  
0 * 2 = 0  
1 * 2 = 2  
2 * 2 = 4  
3 * 2 = 6  
4 * 2 = 8  
5 * 2 = 10  
6 * 2 = 12  
7 * 2 = 14  
8 * 2 = 16  
9 * 2 = 18  
10 * 2 = 20  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `2` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 3  
```  
0 * 3 = 0  
1 * 3 = 3  
2 * 3 = 6  
3 * 3 = 9  
4 * 3 = 12  
5 * 3 = 15  
6 * 3 = 18  
7 * 3 = 21  
8 * 3 = 24  
9 * 3 = 27  
10 * 3 = 30  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `3` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 4  
```  
0 * 4 = 0  
1 * 4 = 4  
2 * 4 = 8  
3 * 4 = 12  
4 * 4 = 16  
5 * 4 = 20  
6 * 4 = 24  
7 * 4 = 28  
8 * 4 = 32  
9 * 4 = 36  
10 * 4 = 40  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `4` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 5  
```  
0 * 5 = 0  
1 * 5 = 5  
2 * 5 = 10  
3 * 5 = 15  
4 * 5 = 20  
5 * 5 = 25  
6 * 5 = 30  
7 * 5 = 35  
8 * 5 = 40  
9 * 5 = 45  
10 * 5 = 50  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `5` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 6  
```  
0 * 6 = 0  
1 * 6 = 6  
2 * 6 = 12  
3 * 6 = 18  
4 * 6 = 24  
5 * 6 = 30  
6 * 6 = 36  
7 * 6 = 42  
8 * 6 = 48  
9 * 6 = 54  
10 * 6 = 60  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `6` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 7  
```  
0 * 7 = 0  
1 * 7 = 7  
2 * 7 = 14  
3 * 7 = 21  
4 * 7 = 28  
5 * 7 = 35  
6 * 7 = 42  
7 * 7 = 49  
8 * 7 = 56  
9 * 7 = 63  
10 * 7 = 70  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `7` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 8  
```  
0 * 8 = 0  
1 * 8 = 8  
2 * 8 = 16  
3 * 8 = 24  
4 * 8 = 32  
5 * 8 = 40  
6 * 8 = 48  
7 * 8 = 56  
8 * 8 = 64  
9 * 8 = 72  
10 * 8 = 80  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `8` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 9  
```  
0 * 9 = 0  
1 * 9 = 9  
2 * 9 = 18  
3 * 9 = 27  
4 * 9 = 36  
5 * 9 = 45  
6 * 9 = 54  
7 * 9 = 63  
8 * 9 = 72  
9 * 9 = 81  
10 * 9 = 90  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `9` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 10  
```  
0 * 10 = 0  
1 * 10 = 10  
2 * 10 = 20  
3 * 10 = 30  
4 * 10 = 40  
5 * 10 = 50  
6 * 10 = 60  
7 * 10 = 70  
8 * 10 = 80  
9 * 10 = 90  
10 * 10 = 100  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `10` from `0` to `10`*

# Simplifying multiplications
When multiplying large numbers, you can break them down into smaller multiplications to make it easier for yourself.

When simplifying a multiplication like `3 * 21`, the first thing that we need to do is create a multiplication that results in `21`, in this case that could be `3 * 7`. We then replace our newly created multiplication with the large number in the original multiplication, which will result in the following multiplication `3 * 3 * 7`. We can then multiply the smaller numbers together to make a simplified multiplication, in this case we could multiple the two `3`'s. When wo do that we end up with our simplified multiplication `9 * 7`.

With that result we can do two things. We could simplify `9 * 7`, or we could add  `1` to that `9` so that we get `10 * 7 = 70`. We then only have to subtract `1 * 7 = 7` from `70` which would leave us with `63`. We have to subtract `1 * 7` since we added a `1` to get to `10 * 7`.

# Multiply numbers by 10
When solving a multiplication like `4 * 10` we can solve it in two different ways.  The first way is by adding the number `10` four times to itself, this will result in `10 + 10 + 10 + 10 = 40`.

The second way of solving it is by understanding the pattern that multiplying a number by `10` uses. The pattern comes down to adding a `0` behind the number you are multiplying by `10`.

```
1 * 10 = 10
2 * 10 = 20
3 * 10 = 30
4 * 10 = 40
5 * 10 = 50
6 * 10 = 60
7 * 10 = 70
8 * 10 = 80
9 * 10 = 90
10 * 10 = 100
11 * 10 = 110
```
*This list displays the pattern that emerges when multiplying any number by `10`.*

When multiplying a large number like `256` by `10`, we simply pick the number `256` and add a `0` to it. This leaves us with the number `256 * 10 = 2560`.

Commit message:

Explained place value tables. Added pattern explanation for addition and subtraction

Fundamentals/4. Multiplication.md, after:

# Table of Contents
```toc
style: bullet
min_depth: 1
max_depth: 6
allow_inconsistent_headings: true
delimiter: "|"
varied_style: false
```
# What is multiplication?
Multiplication is the process of taking one number and adding it to another number a number of times.

## Multiplication as repeated addition
When you encounter yourself adding the same number over and over again, a nice little shorthand of writing it would be with the `*` symbol. This symbol indicates that a multiplication is taking place.

```
2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8
```
*Repeated addition.*

```
2 * 4 = 8
```
*Repeated addition notated as multiplication.*

## Multiplication using groups of objects
Multiplication comes in handy when you have to count multiple groups of objects. The diagrams below (diagrams `A`, `B`, and `C`) contain 3 blocks each.

```
A [] [] []

B [] [] []

C [] [] []
```

We can just repeatedly add these blocks together like `3 + 3 + 3`, but we can also write it down as `3 * 3`. 

## Multiplication order (commutative property)
The order in which you write a multiplication does not matter. `2 * 4` produces the same result as `4 * 2`.

When writing both of these multiplications down as repeated additions, we can see that they indeed produce the same answer.

```
(2 * 4) 2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8
(4 * 2) 4 + 4 = 8
```

## Breaking down multiplications into simpler parts (distributive property)
A multiplication can be broken down into simpler parts, allowing you to easily multiply larger numbers.

We can break down a multiplication like `7 * 8` into smaller parts by redistributing a number inside the multiplication, in this example we will be using `8`. We can write the number `8` as the following additions: 

```
5 + 3
4 + 4
6 + 2
```
*Redistributing the number `8`.*

What we then can do is choose one of those additions and convert them into multiplications. We do this by multiplying both numbers by the number that we're **not** redistributing, in this case that is `7`.

```
(7 * 5) + (7 * 3) = 56
(7 * 4) + (7 * 4) = 56
(7 * 6) + (7 * 2) = 56
```
*Redistributions of the number `8` converted into multiplications.*

The result that we get from each redistribution matches with the result of `7 * 8` which is `56`.

## Multiplying multiple numbers
We can multiply multiple numbers in a row by chaining them. Chaining multiplication looks like this:

```
4 * 3 * 2
```

When solving this multiplication, we generally work from left to right. In this case we first solve `4 * 3`, this gives us `12`. We then replace the `4 * 3` part by twelve, creating the following multiplication: `12 * 2`. The final answer is `24`.

Multiplications can be chained infinitely, this example only illustrates multiplying three numbers together. However, this technique can be expanded in the same way to allow `4` or even `14` numbers to be multiplied together.

### Multiplication order (associative property)
When multiplying multiple numbers in a row, the order of which those numbers are multiplied does not matter.

```
4 * 5 * 2
```

The order in which we multiply the numbers above together does not matter:

```
4 * 5 * 2 = 40
5 * 2 * 4 = 40
2 * 5 * 4 = 40
2 * 4 * 5 = 40
```

# Multiplication from 0 to 10
This section contains all possible values that multiplying a number from 0 to 10 can have. A person could memorize all these combinations so that they will have an easier time with mental math.

## Using the number 0
Multiplication using the number `0` will **always** result in `0`. `0` means nothing, and when you want to multiply something by nothing, you will always get nothing.

```
0 * 0 = 0
1 * 0 = 0
2 * 0 = 0
3 * 0 = 0
4 * 0 = 0
5 * 0 = 0
6 * 0 = 0
7 * 0 = 0
8 * 0 = 0
9 * 0 = 0
10 * 0 = 0
```
*Representation of multiplying `0` from `0` to `10`*

## Using the number 1  
```  
0 * 1 = 0  
1 * 1 = 1  
2 * 1 = 2  
3 * 1 = 3  
4 * 1 = 4  
5 * 1 = 5  
6 * 1 = 6  
7 * 1 = 7  
8 * 1 = 8  
9 * 1 = 9  
10 * 1 = 10  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `1` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 2  
```  
0 * 2 = 0  
1 * 2 = 2  
2 * 2 = 4  
3 * 2 = 6  
4 * 2 = 8  
5 * 2 = 10  
6 * 2 = 12  
7 * 2 = 14  
8 * 2 = 16  
9 * 2 = 18  
10 * 2 = 20  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `2` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 3  
```  
0 * 3 = 0  
1 * 3 = 3  
2 * 3 = 6  
3 * 3 = 9  
4 * 3 = 12  
5 * 3 = 15  
6 * 3 = 18  
7 * 3 = 21  
8 * 3 = 24  
9 * 3 = 27  
10 * 3 = 30  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `3` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 4  
```  
0 * 4 = 0  
1 * 4 = 4  
2 * 4 = 8  
3 * 4 = 12  
4 * 4 = 16  
5 * 4 = 20  
6 * 4 = 24  
7 * 4 = 28  
8 * 4 = 32  
9 * 4 = 36  
10 * 4 = 40  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `4` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 5  
```  
0 * 5 = 0  
1 * 5 = 5  
2 * 5 = 10  
3 * 5 = 15  
4 * 5 = 20  
5 * 5 = 25  
6 * 5 = 30  
7 * 5 = 35  
8 * 5 = 40  
9 * 5 = 45  
10 * 5 = 50  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `5` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 6  
```  
0 * 6 = 0  
1 * 6 = 6  
2 * 6 = 12  
3 * 6 = 18  
4 * 6 = 24  
5 * 6 = 30  
6 * 6 = 36  
7 * 6 = 42  
8 * 6 = 48  
9 * 6 = 54  
10 * 6 = 60  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `6` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 7  
```  
0 * 7 = 0  
1 * 7 = 7  
2 * 7 = 14  
3 * 7 = 21  
4 * 7 = 28  
5 * 7 = 35  
6 * 7 = 42  
7 * 7 = 49  
8 * 7 = 56  
9 * 7 = 63  
10 * 7 = 70  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `7` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 8  
```  
0 * 8 = 0  
1 * 8 = 8  
2 * 8 = 16  
3 * 8 = 24  
4 * 8 = 32  
5 * 8 = 40  
6 * 8 = 48  
7 * 8 = 56  
8 * 8 = 64  
9 * 8 = 72  
10 * 8 = 80  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `8` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 9  
```  
0 * 9 = 0  
1 * 9 = 9  
2 * 9 = 18  
3 * 9 = 27  
4 * 9 = 36  
5 * 9 = 45  
6 * 9 = 54  
7 * 9 = 63  
8 * 9 = 72  
9 * 9 = 81  
10 * 9 = 90  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `9` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 10  
```  
0 * 10 = 0  
1 * 10 = 10  
2 * 10 = 20  
3 * 10 = 30  
4 * 10 = 40  
5 * 10 = 50  
6 * 10 = 60  
7 * 10 = 70  
8 * 10 = 80  
9 * 10 = 90  
10 * 10 = 100  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `10` from `0` to `10`*

# Simplifying multiplications
When multiplying large numbers, you can break them down into smaller multiplications to make it easier for yourself.

When simplifying a multiplication like `3 * 21`, the first thing that we need to do is create a multiplication that results in `21`, in this case that could be `3 * 7`. We then replace our newly created multiplication with the large number in the original multiplication, which will result in the following multiplication `3 * 3 * 7`. We can then multiply the smaller numbers together to make a simplified multiplication, in this case we could multiple the two `3`'s. When wo do that we end up with our simplified multiplication `9 * 7`.

With that result we can do two things. We could simplify `9 * 7`, or we could add  `1` to that `9` so that we get `10 * 7 = 70`. We then only have to subtract `1 * 7 = 7` from `70` which would leave us with `63`. We have to subtract `1 * 7` since we added a `1` to get to `10 * 7`.

# Multiplying numbers by 10
When solving a multiplication like `4 * 10` we can solve it in two different ways.  The first way is by adding the number `10` four times to itself, this will result in `10 + 10 + 10 + 10 = 40`.

The second way of solving it is by understanding the pattern that multiplying a number by `10` uses. The pattern comes down to adding a `0` behind the number you are multiplying by `10`.

```
1 * 10 = 10
2 * 10 = 20
3 * 10 = 30
4 * 10 = 40
5 * 10 = 50
6 * 10 = 60
7 * 10 = 70
8 * 10 = 80
9 * 10 = 90
10 * 10 = 100
11 * 10 = 110
```
*This list displays the pattern that emerges when multiplying any number by `10`.*

When multiplying a large number like `256` by `10`, we simply pick the number `256` and add a `0` to it. This leaves us with the number `256 * 10 = 2560`.

## Understanding the pattern
We can use a place value system to understand why the pattern emerges.

When we multiply the number `1` by ten, we see that it simply moves one place to the left inside the place value system.

| Tens | Ones |
|-|-|
| 0 | 1 |
*From*

| Tens | Ones |
|-|-|
| 1 | 0 |
*To*
