# Table of Contents
```toc
style: bullet
min_depth: 1
max_depth: 6
allow_inconsistent_headings: true
delimiter: "|"
varied_style: false
```
# What is multiplication?
Multiplication is the process of taking one number and adding it to another number a number of times.

## Multiplication as repeated addition
When you encounter yourself adding the same number over and over again, a nice little shorthand of writing it would be with the `*` symbol. This symbol indicates that a multiplication is taking place.

```
2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8
```
*Repeated addition.*

```
2 * 4 = 8
```
*Repeated addition notated as multiplication.*

## Multiplication using groups of objects
Multiplication comes in handy when you have to count multiple groups of objects. The diagrams below (diagrams `A`, `B`, and `C`) contain 3 blocks each.

```
A [] [] []

B [] [] []

C [] [] []
```

We can just repeatedly add these blocks together like `3 + 3 + 3`, but we can also write it down as `3 * 3`. 

## Multiplication order (commutative property)
The order in which you write a multiplication does not matter. `2 * 4` produces the same result as `4 * 2`.

When writing both of these multiplications down as repeated additions, we can see that they indeed produce the same answer.

```
(2 * 4) 2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8
(4 * 2) 4 + 4 = 8
```

## Breaking down multiplications into simpler parts (distributive property)
A multiplication can be broken down into simpler parts, allowing you to easily multiply larger numbers.

We can break down a multiplication like `7 * 8` into smaller parts by redistributing a number inside the multiplication, in this example we will be using `8`. We can write the number `8` as the following additions: 

```
5 + 3 = 8
4 + 4 = 8
6 + 2 = 8
```
*Redistributing the number `8`.*

What we then can do is choose one of those additions and convert them into multiplications. We do this by multiplying both numbers by the number that we're **not** redistributing, in this case that is `7`.

```
(7 * 5) + (7 * 3) = 56
(7 * 4) + (7 * 4) = 56
(7 * 6) + (7 * 2) = 56
```
*Redistributions of the number `8` converted into multiplications.*

The result that we get from each redistribution matches with the result of `7 * 8` which is `56`.

## Multiplying multiple numbers
We can multiply multiple numbers in a row by chaining them. Chaining multiplication looks like this:

```
4 * 3 * 2
```

When solving this multiplication, we generally work from left to right. In this case we first solve `4 * 3`, this gives us `12`. We then replace the `4 * 3` part by twelve, creating the following multiplication: `12 * 2`. The final answer is `24`.

Multiplications can be chained infinitely, this example only illustrates multiplying three numbers together. However, this technique can be expanded in the same way to allow `4` or even `14` numbers to be multiplied together.

### Multiplication order (associative property)
When multiplying multiple numbers in a row, the order of which those numbers are multiplied does not matter.

```
4 * 5 * 2
```

The order in which we multiply the numbers above together does not matter:

```
4 * 5 * 2 = 40
5 * 2 * 4 = 40
2 * 5 * 4 = 40
2 * 4 * 5 = 40
```

# Multiplication from 0 to 10
This section contains all possible values that multiplying a number from 0 to 10 can have. A person could memorize all these combinations so that they will have an easier time with mental math.

## Using the number 0
Multiplication using the number `0` will **always** result in `0`. `0` means nothing, and when you want to multiply something by nothing, you will always get nothing.

```
0 * 0 = 0
1 * 0 = 0
2 * 0 = 0
3 * 0 = 0
4 * 0 = 0
5 * 0 = 0
6 * 0 = 0
7 * 0 = 0
8 * 0 = 0
9 * 0 = 0
10 * 0 = 0
```
*Representation of multiplying `0` from `0` to `10`*

## Using the number 1  
```  
0 * 1 = 0  
1 * 1 = 1  
2 * 1 = 2  
3 * 1 = 3  
4 * 1 = 4  
5 * 1 = 5  
6 * 1 = 6  
7 * 1 = 7  
8 * 1 = 8  
9 * 1 = 9  
10 * 1 = 10  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `1` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 2  
```  
0 * 2 = 0  
1 * 2 = 2  
2 * 2 = 4  
3 * 2 = 6  
4 * 2 = 8  
5 * 2 = 10  
6 * 2 = 12  
7 * 2 = 14  
8 * 2 = 16  
9 * 2 = 18  
10 * 2 = 20  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `2` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 3  
```  
0 * 3 = 0  
1 * 3 = 3  
2 * 3 = 6  
3 * 3 = 9  
4 * 3 = 12  
5 * 3 = 15  
6 * 3 = 18  
7 * 3 = 21  
8 * 3 = 24  
9 * 3 = 27  
10 * 3 = 30  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `3` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 4  
```  
0 * 4 = 0  
1 * 4 = 4  
2 * 4 = 8  
3 * 4 = 12  
4 * 4 = 16  
5 * 4 = 20  
6 * 4 = 24  
7 * 4 = 28  
8 * 4 = 32  
9 * 4 = 36  
10 * 4 = 40  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `4` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 5  
```  
0 * 5 = 0  
1 * 5 = 5  
2 * 5 = 10  
3 * 5 = 15  
4 * 5 = 20  
5 * 5 = 25  
6 * 5 = 30  
7 * 5 = 35  
8 * 5 = 40  
9 * 5 = 45  
10 * 5 = 50  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `5` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 6  
```  
0 * 6 = 0  
1 * 6 = 6  
2 * 6 = 12  
3 * 6 = 18  
4 * 6 = 24  
5 * 6 = 30  
6 * 6 = 36  
7 * 6 = 42  
8 * 6 = 48  
9 * 6 = 54  
10 * 6 = 60  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `6` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 7  
```  
0 * 7 = 0  
1 * 7 = 7  
2 * 7 = 14  
3 * 7 = 21  
4 * 7 = 28  
5 * 7 = 35  
6 * 7 = 42  
7 * 7 = 49  
8 * 7 = 56  
9 * 7 = 63  
10 * 7 = 70  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `7` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 8  
```  
0 * 8 = 0  
1 * 8 = 8  
2 * 8 = 16  
3 * 8 = 24  
4 * 8 = 32  
5 * 8 = 40  
6 * 8 = 48  
7 * 8 = 56  
8 * 8 = 64  
9 * 8 = 72  
10 * 8 = 80  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `8` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 9  
```  
0 * 9 = 0  
1 * 9 = 9  
2 * 9 = 18  
3 * 9 = 27  
4 * 9 = 36  
5 * 9 = 45  
6 * 9 = 54  
7 * 9 = 63  
8 * 9 = 72  
9 * 9 = 81  
10 * 9 = 90  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `9` from `0` to `10`*  
  
## Using the number 10  
```  
0 * 10 = 0  
1 * 10 = 10  
2 * 10 = 20  
3 * 10 = 30  
4 * 10 = 40  
5 * 10 = 50  
6 * 10 = 60  
7 * 10 = 70  
8 * 10 = 80  
9 * 10 = 90  
10 * 10 = 100  
```  
*Representation of multiplying `10` from `0` to `10`*

# Simplifying multiplications
When multiplying large numbers, you can break them down into smaller multiplications to make it easier for yourself.

When simplifying a multiplication like `3 * 21`, the first thing that we need to do is create a multiplication that results in `21`, in this case that could be `3 * 7`. We then replace our newly created multiplication with the large number in the original multiplication, which will result in the following multiplication `3 * 3 * 7`. We can then multiply the smaller numbers together to make a simplified multiplication, in this case we could multiply the two `3`'s. When wo do that we end up with our simplified multiplication `9 * 7`.

With that result we can do two things. We could simplify `9 * 7`, or we could add  `1` to that `9` so that we get `10 * 7 = 70`. We then only have to subtract `1 * 7 = 7` from `70` which would leave us with `63`. We have to subtract `1 * 7` since we added a `1` to get to `10 * 7`.

# Multiplying numbers by 10
When solving a multiplication like `4 * 10` we can solve it in two different ways.  The first way is by adding the number `10` four times to itself, this will result in `10 + 10 + 10 + 10 = 40`.

The second way of solving it is by understanding the pattern that multiplying a number by `10` uses. The pattern comes down to adding a `0` behind the number you are multiplying by `10`.

```
1 * 10 = 10
2 * 10 = 20
3 * 10 = 30
4 * 10 = 40
5 * 10 = 50
6 * 10 = 60
7 * 10 = 70
8 * 10 = 80
9 * 10 = 90
10 * 10 = 100
11 * 10 = 110
```
*This list displays the pattern that emerges when multiplying any number by `10`.*

When multiplying a large number like `256` by `10`, we simply pick the number `256` and add a `0` to it. This leaves us with the number `256 * 10 = 2560`.

## Understanding the pattern
We can use a place value system to understand why the pattern emerges.

When we multiply the number `1` by ten, we see that it simply moves one place to the left inside the place value system.

| T | O |
|-|-|
| 0 | 1 |
*From*

| T | O |
|-|-|
| 1 | 0 |
*To*

# Multiplying single digit numbers by two digit numbers (and vice versa)
When multiplying single digit numbers by two digit numbers (or two digit numbers by single digit numbers) we can use the distributive property of multiplication to make it easier for ourselves.

For example, how could we solve a multiplication like `56 * 8`? To start, we need to redistribute the numbers into an addition:

```
(50 * 8) + (6 * 8)
```
*Multiplication `56 * 8` redistributed into an addition*

Now we can easily solve this by first solving the multiplications:

```
(50 * 8) + (6 * 8)

turns into...

(400) + (48)
```

Once we solve the addition we'll be left with our answer: `400 + 48 = 448` or `56 * 8 = 448`.

## Using partial products
Another way of multiplying single digit numbers by two digit numbers is by using a partial products method. In this method, we utilize a place value system. This comes with the bonus that each digit keeps its place value, this will make multiplying large numbers much easier.

For example, how would we solve a multiplication like `7 * 587` using partial products? The first step is to write down the multiplication:

```
587
  7
--- *
```
*Step 1, starting point*

The next step is to multiply each number from the top row with each number in the bottom row, following a right to left order. The reason for this order is that we want to go from the lowest place value (the most right column) to the highest place value (the most left column):

```
58[7]
  [7]
----- *
```
*Step 2, `7 * 7`*

```
5[8]7
   [7]
------ *
```
*Step 2, `80 * 7`*

```
[5]87
   [7]
------ *
```
*Step 3, `500 * 7`*

```
  587
    7
 ---- *
(1) 
 (1)
   49 = 7 * 7
  560 = 80 * 7
 3500 = 500 * 7
 ----
 4109
```
*Step 6, add everything together*

# Multiplying multi-digit numbers
Multiplying multi-digit numbers uses the same process as multiplying a single digit by a multi-digit number. Each number inside the top row needs to be multiplied with each number inside the bottom row.

The following process is followed when multiplying `27 * 93`:

```
93
27
-- *
```
*Step 1, Starting point*

```
9]3]
2[7]
---- *
```
*Step 2, `3 * 7`*

```
9 [3]
2] 7
------ *
```
*Step 3, `3 * 20`*

```
[9] 3
 2 [7]
------ *
```
*Step 4, `90 * 7`*

```
[9]3
[2]7
---- *
```
*Step 5, `90 * 20`*

```
         (1)
          (1)
7 * 3   =   21
7 * 90  =  630
20 * 3  =   60
20 * 90 = 1800
		  ---- +
		  2511
```
*Step 6, add everything together*