# Table of Contents
```toc
style: bullet
min_depth: 1
max_depth: 6
allow_inconsistent_headings: true
delimiter: "|"
varied_style: false
```
# What is division?
TODO:: Add a definition here...

## Division as equal groups
Division can be seen as splitting a collection of items into **equal** groups.

```
[] [] [] []
[] [] [] []
[] [] [] []
[] [] [] []
```

The diagram above contains `16` items in total. If we would want to divide these items evenly, we would need to create `4` groups of `4` items in each group. This works because if we look at as a multiplication, we could ask ourselves which multiplication results in 16 and uses a `4`. In this case that would be `4 * 4 = 16`.

Our evenly divided items would look as follows:
```
[] | [] | [] | []
[] | [] | [] | []
[] | [] | [] | []
[] | [] | [] | []
```

but they could also look like this:
```
[] [] [] []
-----------
[] [] [] []
-----------
[] [] [] []
-----------
[] [] [] []
```

## Relating division to multiplication
When encountering a division like `48 / 8`, a multiplication could be used to find the answer. The division could be re-ordered into the following multiplication `? * 8 = 48`. In this example, the answer would be `6` since `6 * 8 = 48`.

# Dividing numbers by 10
When encountering a division like `40 / 10` we can solve it in two ways. The first way is to relate division to multiplication. We can ask ourselves "what times `10` makes 40?". In this case that would be `4 * 10 = 40`. The final answer would be `4` since `4 * 10 = 40` and we're asking how many times a `10` goes into `40`.

The second way of solving it is by understanding the pattern that dividing a number by `10` uses. The pattern comes down to removing a 0 from the number that you are dividing.

```
10 / 10 = 1
20 / 10 = 2
30 / 10 = 3
40 / 10 = 4
50 / 10 = 5
60 / 10 = 6
70 / 10 = 7
80 / 10 = 8
90 / 10 = 9
100 / 10 = 10
110 / 10 = 11
```
*This list displays the pattern that emerges when dividing all numbers greater or equal to `10` by `10`.*

## Understanding the pattern
We can use a place value system to understand why the pattern emerges.

When we divide the number `10` by ten, we see that it simply moves one place to the right inside the place value system.

| T | O |
|-|-|
| 1 | 0 |
*From*

| T | O |
|-|-|
| 0 | 1 |
*To*

# Division and remainders
A remainder is the amount you have left when dividing a certain thing equally. For example, if we have €13 and a candy bar costs €2, how many candy bars can you buy? and how much money do you have left?

To tackle this question, the first thing we need to know is how much equal groups of two we can make to get as close as possible to `13`. A way to do this is to think about which number times `2` comes as close as possible to `13`. In this case that is `6` because  `2 * 6 = 12`. Therefore, the amount of candy bars we can buy is `6`. To find out how much money we have left we simply subtract the closes amount we can create with equal groups of two (in this case that is `6`) and subtract that from the target result. This will leave us with `13 - 12 = 1`. We will have €1 left.

We can express our final answer to the question as `6r1`. Since we can buy `6` candy bars and have a remainder of €1. Remainders are expressed by adding the letter `r` plus the remaining amount. 

# Dividing large numbers
When dividing large numbers, a simple strategy can be used to quickly see how many times a smaller number fits inside a larger number. The strategy basically consists out of subtracting a bunch of multiples of the smaller number from the total numbers, until we either hit 0 or a remainder.

## Without remainders
The following example shows the process of finding out how many times `7` fits into `833`.

```
     7 / 833
7 * 90 = 630
         --- -
         203
7 * 20 = 140
         --- -
          63
 7 * 9 =  63
         --- -
           0
```

As you can see in the example above, the only thing that is being done is finding multiplications of 7. Those multiplications are then subtracted from the total number (`883`). In this case we can see that with 3 well placed multiplications, we can hit `0` quite quickly.

The only thing left to do is to add all the multiplications together to get our final answer. In this case that is `90 + 20 + 9 = 119`. The final answer is `119`.

## With remainders
The following example shows the process of finding out how many times `3` fits into `583`.

```
	  3 / 583
3 * 100 = 300
          --- -
          283
3 * 90  = 270
		  --- -
		   13
3 * 4   =  12
          --- -
            1
```

The example above uses the same method as explained in the previous section. The only thing that is different is that we can't divide `1` into three equal groups. Therefore `1` is our remainder. The only thing left to do is add all the multiplications: `100 + 90 + 4 = 194` and add the remainder: `194r1`. Our final answer is `194r1`.